# Glitches
Logic gates introduce delays, which can lead to brief spurious outputs, denoted as "glitches". There are two main strategies to prevent them:
- Design extra combinatorial circuits that "filter out" these glitches (very hard to do)
- Make *sequential circuits* which wait a certain amount of time (established by a *clock*) to "skip" the glitches.

## Sequential approach
Let's focus on the second approach. The central element of sequential logic is the *flip-flop*, a simple circuit that is capable to *store* 1 bit of information as a form of volatile memory. 

In VHDL this is done by using *processes*, i.e. functions that are continuously executed, and that can *sense* the change of certain signals. 

```vhdl
<process_name>: process( <sensitivity_list> ) is
    begin

    <Code>
end process;
```

A *flip-flop* needs a *timing* signal, the **clock**, i.e. a periodic square wave with typical high frequency (e.g. $T=10$ns). 
A *flip-flop* has two inputs (`set` and `reset`) and one output (`out`). 
There can be two types of flip-flops:
- **Latch** (Asynchronous or "simple"). If the `reset` pin is `1`, `out` is set to `0`. Otherwise, if the `clock` signal is `1`, then `out` = `set`.
- **Flip-flop** (Synchronous). If `reset = 1` then `out = 0` as before. However, now `out` is updated to be equal to the `set` input **only** during a *rising edge* of the clock signal.   

So a *latch* updates its `out` every time `set` changes during the time window where `clock = 1` (given that the circuit is "on", that is `reset = 0`) - meaning that the change in output can happen during a *continuous* time interval (that is what asynchronous means). On the other hand, a *flip-flop* only updates at *discrete* times, i.e. during the rising edges of `clock`. 

So, while a **latch** is sensitive to glitches that happen while `clock = 1`, the **flip-flop** isn't, meaning that the latter is much more suited to remove this kind of unwanted signals.