# Hello, world!
We start with the following vhdl code, that will be executed on the `xc7a35tcsg324-1` board:
```vhdl
library IEEE;
use IEEE.STD_LOGIC_1164.all;
entity top is --define a new entity (digital block)
port (btn_in : in std_logic; --define inputs and outputs
led_out : out std_logic);
end top;
architecture Behavioral of top is --define behaviour of entity "top"
begin
led_out <= btn_in;
end Behavioral;
```

Each digital block is described in `vhdl` as an **entity**, which is completely described by specifying all its inputs and outputs, along with its behaviour. The simplest possible function is just to _copy_ the input signal to the output. 

However, it is also necessary to specify _where_ the inputs and outputs will be on the _physical fpga board_. This is done in a *separate file*, a _contraint file_ with extension `.xdc`, where the named ports (e.g. `btn_in` and `led_out`) are mapped to physical pins of the FPGA (which are listed in the board's schematic). For example, the pin connected to `LED0_B` (that we want to use to control the led) is connected to the output `E1`. To map it to `led_out` we write:

```vhdl
set_property PACKAGE_PIN E_1 [get_ports { led_out }];
```

It is also necessary to define the electrical standard that this pin will follow:
```vhdl
set_property IOSTANDARD LVCMOS33 [get_ports { led_out }];
```
Now, after doing the same for `btn_in`, we are finally set up!

We can **review** the code by _synthesizing_ it. This operation will produce a graphical schematic of all the specified connection, allowing an easier identification of eventual mistakes.

Finally, before **executing** the project, we need to **implement** it. This basically merges the `vhdl` code with the constraints specified in the `.xdc` file, in a certain sense "compiling" all this code in a single file. Then this is converted to binary (through the _Generate Bitstream_ option) and uploaded to the physical board for execution.

Summarizing, a FPGA project consists of the following steps:

1. Write the **logic** in `vhdl` code
2. Map logical ports to physical ones in a **constraints** file (`.xdc`)
3. (Optional) **Synthesize** the project, constructing a graphical representation to check for errors
4. **Implement** the project, merging `vhdl` and `.xdg`.
5. Generate the **Bitstream**
6. **Connect** the board
7. **Upload** and **run** on the board.

## Projects
1. `hello_world_v1`: press `btn0` to light up `led0`
2. `hello_world_v2` 