# Containers
Useful to create dynamic object (info not known at compile time):
- Run-time polymorphism
- Dynamic size

There is some difference in performance between *stack* and *heap*. For example, a struct on the stack is given by:
```cpp
struct S {
    int n;
    float f;
    double d;
};

auto foo_s() {
    S s;
    ...
}
```
and the occupancy is just that of `sizeof(S)`.

However, on the heap there is the need to allocate also a pointer, such as with `S* s = new S`, with an occupancy of `sizeof(S) + sizeof(S*)` + some overhead from `new`. This is particularly evident by looking at the assembly produced by both instructions: the `heap` version is much more longer, with $\sim 50$ns for each `new/delete` (if we use only a moderate amount of optimization, e.g. `-O3` with no `native` flag).

**Containers** are objects that contain other objects, implemented as class templates. They have some common traits, and are divided in two main categories:
- **Sequence**: insertion point is user-defined (`array, deque, forward_list, list, vector`)
- **Associative**: insertion point is pre-defined. It can be computed according to some rule (*ordered* container - `map, multimap,set multiset`) or a hash (*unordered* container, all starting with `unordered_`).

Let's see them one by one:
- **Array**: Container with fixed size (literal, or expression known at compile time) that sits on the stack.
- **Vector**: three pointers on the stack, all the contents on the heap + some spare capacity (also on the heap). One pointer represents the beginning of the vector, one to the first position in the spare capacity, and the last one points one past the last element of the reserved space (which sits at the higher address in the heap). If the spare space is completely used, the vector automatically reallocates, doubling the total size. It is advised to use `reserve` to avoid unnecessary reallocations. Note that `reserve` does not change the vector size (you cannot assign directly to reserved positions!), while `resize` can (if needed) `reserve`, and then calls the (copy) constructor on the newly created elements.
- **List**: bidirectional list, node-based. Nodes sit on the heap, and each of them has two pointers, one to the previous one, the other to the next. 
- **Set**, **multiset** - contain ordered values (key = values). **map** and **multimap** use a set of keys and elements. They are implemented as balanced trees, so that search, removal and insertion have logarithmic complexity.

# Compile-time computation
It is possible to do computations *during compilation*. In fact, there are functions that can be used by the compiler to inspect code.

## Type introspection
- `sizeof(T)`: size of an object
- `is_default_constructible_v<T>`
- `is_move_assignable_v<T>`
- `is_nothrow_move_assignable_v<T>`
- `is_same_v<T1, T2>`
- `common_type_t<int, unsigned, float>`
- `static_assert`, `is_floating_point_v<T>`...

Example: distance between generic iterators
```cpp
template<class It>
typename iterator_traits<It>::difference_type //output is a distance between iterators of (templated) type It
distance(It first, It last) {

}
```
However, depending on the `It`, two algorithms need to be used. For lists, the only way is to explore sequentially, and then count the hops between `first` and `last`. For standard vectors, one can simply do a subtraction. How can we know at compile-time which is the case, and then choose the appropriate function?

The idea is to define the two specific functions with a third parameter, which has a different type depending on the class of the iterators. Thus, by using overloading, the main function template can call the right function and return its result:
```cpp
//overloaded specific functions (3 parameters, third is the type)
template<class It>
typename iterator_traits<It>::difference_type
__distance(It first, It last, random_access_iterator_tag tag) {
    return last - first;
}

template<class It>
typename iterator_traits<It>::difference_type
__distance(It first, It last, input_iterator_tag tag) {
    typename iterator_traits<It>::difference_type n = 0;
    while (first != last) { ++first; ++n; }
    return n;
}

//main template function (2 arguments, just the iterators)
template<class It>
typename iterator_traits<It>::difference_type //can be auto
distance(It first, It last) {
    return __distance(first, last, iterator_traits<It>::category{})
}
```

**constexpr**: suggestion to the compiler that a certain function can be computed at compile time (there are some constraints - it can not use runtime specific instructions, arguments need to be known...). This can be done even with the if construct (`if constexpr ...`).

